So now that we learned about two ways of getting access to our data, our user input data,
let me show you a third way that gives us even more flexibility.
Let me show you a way that allows us to store the value the user enters in a property of this component
which we update with every keystroke, which for example can be helpful when we want to live validate
the user input.
For this, I will first of all add a new property, a stateful property, hence I will add the state decorator
and that will be that user input,
so the stock user input or whatever you want to name it.
And this will be a string
because whatever the user inputs into the next field is a string,
that's just how HTML works.
So stock user input is a string
and now down at the input here, I will actually give this the value binding, value is the default attribute
of HTML elements,
we can bind to this,
we can set a dynamic value to this attribute to override the value that is currently stored in the
input field and
I'll set this to this stock user input and of course, I don't just want to bind the text input here to
that input,
I also want to listen to changes and store those changes in the stock user input.
So we effectively set up some two-way binding here, saving the value the user entered into stock user
input but then also writing it back into this input element so that this is always up to date with what
the user entered,
makes sense because the user enters it here.
What is the idea behind this?
Well since we now always have the most recent version of what the user entered stored in stock user
input here, we can use it in the rest of the component to live validate the input or whatever we want
to do.
So here, this stock user input is bound to the value
and on the input event here, I want to also update the value in stock user input. For this,
I'll add a new handler, onUserInput or whatever you want to name it, here we'll get the event object
and there, I will set this stock user input equal to event target value.
Now for this to work, I just need to inform Typescript that the event target will be an HTML input
element,
so same trick as before, we can simply add as HTML input element here and now onUserInput is
the method I want to execute here on the input event handler,
so I'll set this to this onUserInput
and don't forget, bind this to make sure that the this keyword inside of onUserInput,
this one here refers to the overall class and not to the input element.
So now I'm always updating
and if we save that and I type here, this should still be possible,
so this works as before but whatever we type here is now always stored in stock user input
and how can that be helpful?
Well we can simply use it in whichever way we want,
for example I can have another stateful property, stockInputValid and set this to false initially.
Now I want to set it to true
if it is valid. Now I won't add a check here that sees
if a given symbol exists, that would be more advanced, here I simply want to check whether the input is
empty or not
and I will check if this stock user input, whatever the user enters here,
when I trim this to avoid the case where the user enters a couple of whitespace because trim will remove
excess whitespace,
if I trim this, then the length should be greater than zero, so this should not be empty
or alternatively, this should not be equal to an empty string, whoops, not the length though
but the trim value. And with this, I'll set this stockInputValid to true because I know if the trim value is
not an empty string, then it is treated as a valid input.
It might still be a symbol that doesn't exist but that is something we can check here,
we'll add a check for that later
but this now simply avoids cases where the user tries to submit an empty input field.
Else, this stockInputValid will be false,
it's not valid if the trim value is an empty string.
So now we update on every keystroke too
because this gets fired on every keystroke and we use that data here, that input data. We can use that information
down in our render function now, for example to disable the button if the input is not valid. For that, I'll
bind
disabled to this stockInputValid, however this should be disabled if it's not valid,
so I'll check for the opposite here.
Now with that if I reload, we don't see the difference here because I have no styling for that
but if I click on fetch now, we don't get an error on the right,
so indeed, this didn't go through.
Now to show that this is disabled, we can also adjust the styling here real quick,
so for the button when it is disabled, when it has this disabled attribute or we use the special sudo selector
of course, disabled,
so when this button is disabled, then let's say we give it a background color of the light gray, border color
of that gray and a text color of white and we set the cursor to not allowed
and now with that if I save that, this looks way more disabled
and as soon as I start entering something here, you see it gets enabled
but if I clear that, it gets disabled again.
So now we have this in place and this is how we can work with forms in a bit of a more powerful and
flexible way
and this is also how we can always manage this value as a two-way bound live updated value incase we always
need access to that value.